# Writeup

This is a partial TUI (Terminal User Interface) port of the game [_Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes_](https://keeptalkinggame.com/). You need to write a program to defuse the bomb before it explodes, (or if you can defuse it fast enough manually).

The solver program would consist 2 main parts:

1. **Terminal emulator**  
   
   The game is rendered on consoles using escape sequences generated by the [curses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curses_(programming_library)) library. To parse the commands, the best way is to use an established terminal emulator that allows you to communicate with it programmatically. We have tested the game using [xterm.js](https://xtermjs.org/).

2. **Game solver**
   
   Once the terminal emulator is set up, you can effectively parse the bomb faces using your code. Every component of the bomb would appear on a fixed coordinate, and thus can be parsed by reading the console canvas using hardcoded coooridnates. 
   
   To find out how to send mouse commands, you can look into the initial setup commands of the program. Inside of which you will find `␛[?1006;1000h`, which is documented in [the XTerm Control Sequences](https://invisible-island.net/xterm/ctlseqs/ctlseqs.html#h2-Extended-coordinates) that describes the format of the command. Alternatively, you can just play the game in your terminal, and capture the TCP traffic to see what you console sends when you click on the bomb. The mouse commands are in the format of <code>␛[<0;<var>Px</var>;<var>Py</var>M␛[<0;<var>Px</var>;<var>Py</var>m</code>, where `␛` is the Escape character (0x1B), `0` represents the left mouse button, `Px` and `Py` are the coordinates of the mouse position (starting from 1), and finally `M` and `m` is the mouse button down and up command.

   To find out what module can be found on the bomb, the program can read the labels of each module, which are always located on the same location. From there, the controls of each module are placed relatively fixed to the label.

   Before solving the bomb, we need to first check the top and bottom of the bomb to get (1) the serial number, (2) types of indicators, and (3) number of batteries. These information would later be useful to solve the modules.

   Then, we can go back to the front panel, and solve each module individually. The instruction in the manual is written in a way very close to pseudocode, so the rest of the task is to implement them.

   After defusing the bomb, the flag will show up in the final report.

## Trivia

The `stty -echo -icanon` part of the command is to ensure that the console sends any input to the progrmam immediately instead of waiting for the user to press enter. This is necessary because the mouse event reports do not end with a line break.

Flag: <code>SEKAI{ANSI?xterm?VT100?idk&#x60;&#x5c;&#x5f;(''/)_/&#x60;}</code>
